# Analytical and Operational Data

	There are two main types of data that organizations can benefit from analyzing.
	The data that is used will always depend on the problem you're trying to solve.
## Operational Data
This type of data is produced by the organizations every day operations, this data is gathered in real time. This is done to provide a snapshot of what's happening in the present.

Operational data answers the "What?" questions, like, "What were our inventory levels today?" It doesn't deal with anything in the hypothetical sense but instead in concrete, strictly observable things.

## Analytical Data
This is historical data that is used to help people make decisions in the present. 
This data is meant to undergo in-depth analysis. This is typically data considered to be older, particularly around a few hours.
This data type can easily be visualized using charts and graphs. It can show trends that help those in charge make mission-critical decisions for the future.

Data like this answers the "What if?" questions, as in, "What if we sold this product instead of another one? What would that likely do to our sales?" You could analyze historical data to try to answer this question.

There are various categories of data that are considered analytical data, including the following:

- **Market data**: Use this data type to gauge markets trends in order to decide what to do in the present, such as which companies to invest in.
- **Transactional data**: Use this data type to look at what customers have historically purchased in order to decide what products to make in the present.
- **Sensor data**: Use this data type to observe historical data from sensors, such as weather and climate information over time.
- **Natural language**: Use this data type to observe language, such as social media posts that can be used to look for trends in customer preferences.
- **Machine data**: Use this data type to look at data generated by computer hardware or software. You can better understand your technological landscape this way.